CommonName	ScientificName	Midland Watersnake	Description	State
Javan File Snake	Acrochordus javanicus	NON-VENOMOUS	Adult Javan File Snakes in Sumatra, Indonesia average 46 inches (118 cm) for males and 53 inches (135 cm) for females in snout-vent length, but they can reach 9.5 feet (290 cm) in total length. These are large snakes with dark brown backs and cream-colored sides and bellies. These snakes have loose, baggy skin that feels rough like course sandpaper due to the large hook-like keels on each scale. The eyes and nostrils are positioned on top of the head, which is covered in tiny scales. Juvenile color pattern is similar to that of adults.	FL
Rim Rock Crowned Snake	Tantilla oolitica	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Rim Rock Crowned Snakes are about 7-9 inches (18-23 cm) in total length. These small and thin snakes are tan to light brown with a dark brown or black head and neck. The tip of the snout is tan-colored. The eyes are small. Juveniles are similar in coloration to adults.	FL
Queensnake	Regina septemvittata	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Queensnakes are about 15-24 inches (38-61 cm) in total length. These slender snakes are brownish to olive-green with a yellowish or cream-colored stripe on the lower side of a body. The lip scales are cream-colored and contrast sharply with the rest of the brown head. The scales on the body are dull and strongly keeled (each scale has a prominent raised ridge). Juvenile coloration is similar to that of adults.	AL, AR, DC, GA, IL, IN, KY, MD, MO, NC, NY, OH, PA, TN, VA, WV
South Florida Mole Kingsnake	Lampropeltis occipitolineata	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult South Florida Mole Kingsnakes are about 30-42 inches (76-107 cm) in total length. Adults are gray, brown, or tan with at least 75 black-bordered reddish-brown blotches down the body and tail. Older individuals may be almost solid brown. The neck is indistinct, and there is sometimes a dark line through the eye. There is a network of dark lines on the back of the head. Juveniles are similar in appearance to adults but more vivid and with a silvery ground color.	FL
Southeastern Crowned Snake	Tantilla coronata	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Southeastern Crowned Snakes are about 8-10 inches (20-26 cm) in total length. These small and thin snakes are tan to reddish brown with a black head. There is a light-colored band across the back of the head and a black band extending onto the back of the neck. Hatchlings are grayish in coloration and have darker heads than adults.	AL, FL, GA, NC, SC
Short-tailed Kingsnake	Lampropeltis extenuata	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Short-tailed Kingsnakes are about 14-20 inches (36-51 cm) in total length. These are extremely slender gray snakes with a pattern of black blotches or spots. The light-colored spaces between the black spots on the back often have an orange center giving the impression of an indistinct orange stripe running down the back. The blunt head is very small and roughly the same diameter as the body. The top of the head is dark brown or black. Juvenile coloration is similar to that described for adults.	FL
Southern Hog-nosed Snake	Heterodon simus	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult southern hog-nosed snakes are about 18-22 inches (45-55 cm) in total length. These are small, stout-bodied snakes with sharply upturned snouts. Adults can be light gray, tan, yellowish brown, or orangish-red, with large dark blotches down the middle of the back that alternate with smaller dark blotches on the sides. There is often reddish-orange coloration between the large blotches on the back. There is a dark line extending from the upper jaw through the eye. Juvenile coloration is similar to that described for adults but more vivid.	AL, FL, GA, MS, NC, SC
Apalachicola Kingsnake	Lampropeltis meansi	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Apalachicola Kingsnakes are about 36-48 inches (90-122 cm) in total length. These snakes are variable in coloration and distinguished from all other kingsnakes by their overall light body coloration, having either narrow or wide crossbands with considerably lightened color between the bands, or being non-banded (striped or patternless). Banded individuals have fewer than 26 yellowish and usually wide crossbands down the back. The neck is indistinct, and the scales are smooth and shiny. Banded juveniles are mostly black with white or yellowish crossbands down the body. Striped and patternless juveniles are mostly black and lack light crossbands.	FL
Boa Constrictor	Boa constrictor	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Boa Constrictors are about 10-16 feet (3-5 m) in total length. These are very large, stout-bodied snakes with dark brown hourglass-shaped saddles down the body that become reddish bands towards the tail. The background coloration is usually tan, light brown, grayish brown, or cream colored. The top of the head is tannish with a thin, dark stripe down the middle. There are dark, elongate markings behind the eyes that are often bordered by white below. Juvenile color pattern is similar to that of adults, except the coloration is more vivid.	FL
Plain-bellied Watersnake	Nerodia erythrogaster	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Plain-bellied Watersnakes are about 30-48 inches (76-122 cm) in total length. Adults are thick-bodied and are uniform greenish gray or reddish-brown in color with no patterning on the back. The belly, neck, and lip scales are almost uniform yellow or reddish-orange. Juveniles are grayish-brown with distinct dark crossbands and blotches. The juvenile pattern fades into the uniform adult coloration within about one year.	AL, AR, CO, FL, GA, IL, IN, IA, KS, KY, LA, MO, MS, NE, NC, OH, OK, SC, SD, TN, TX, VA
Rough Earthsnake	Haldea striatula	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Rough Earthsnakes are about 7-10 inches (18-26 cm) in total length. These are small glossy brown or grayish-brown snakes with a light yellow or cream-colored belly. The head is small with a distinctly pointed snout. A faint light ring may be present around the neck. Juveniles are darker than adults and have a white to light gray ring around the neck.	AL, AR, DC, GA, IL, IN, KS, KY, LA, MD, MS, MO, NC, OH, OK, SC, TN, TX, VA
Glossy Swampsnake	Liodytes rigida	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Glossy Swampsnakes are about 14-24 inches (36-61 cm) in total length. These small snakes are glossy brown to olive brown, and there may be a faint dark stripe down the back and down each side. The eyes are relatively large. The lip scales are yellow and contrast sharply with the brownish-olive color of the head. Juveniles are similar to that of adults.	FL
Mississippi Green Watersnake	Nerodia cyclopion	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Mississippi Green Watersnakes are about 30-55 inches (76-140 cm) in total length. Adults are stout-bodied snakes with a dark greenish background color and several narrow darker markings alternating down the back and sides. These markings typically fade as the animal ages and may disappear completely. The head is large, with small scales between the eye and the upper lip scales. Juvenile coloration is similar to that described for adults, but the dark markings on the back and sides are much more vivid.	AL, AR, FL, GA, IL, IN, KY, LA, MO, MS, NC, OH, TN
Northern Mole Kingsnake	Lampropeltis rhombomaculata	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Northern Mole Kingsnakes are about 30-42 inches (76-107 cm) in total length. Adults are gray, brown, or orangish, with typically around 55 black-bordered reddish-brown blotches down the body and tail. Older individuals may be almost solid brown. The neck is indistinct, and there is sometimes a dark line through the eye. Juveniles are similar in appearance to adults but more vivid and with a silvery ground color.	FL, GA, SC
Striped Swampsnake	Liodytes alleni	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Striped Swampsnakes are about 13-20 inches (33-51 cm) in total length. These small snakes are glossy brownish-yellow with three broad, dark stripes, one down the back and one along each side. The lower sides are yellowish-tan. The head appears small relative to the body, but the eyes are relatively large. The lip scales are yellow and contrast sharply with the brown color of the head. Juveniles are similar to adults.	FL
Midland Watersnake	Nerodia sipedon pleuralis	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Midland Watersnakes are about 24-30 inches (60-76 cm) in total length. Adults are stout-bodied and light brown with dark brown or reddish-brown crossbands near the neck, which are often outlined in black. These crossbands change into alternating blotches further down the body. There are dark squarish markings on the sides of the body between the dorsal blotches that extend upwards from the belly. Juvenile coloration is similar to that described for adults.	AL, AR, CO, FL, GA, IL, IN, IA, KS, KY, LA, MO, MS, NE, NC, OH, OK, SC, SD, TN, TX, VA
Florida Crowned Snake	Tantilla relicta	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Florida Crowned Snakes are about 7-9 inches (18-23 cm) in total length. These small and thin snakes are tan to reddish brown with a dark brown or black head and neck. Juveniles are similar in coloration to adults.	FL
Smooth Earthsnake	Virginia valeriae	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Smooth Earthsnakes are about 7-10 inches (18-26 cm) in total length. These are small glossy brown or reddish brown snakes. They may have tiny dark flecks on back that are either scattered or loosely arranged in rows. The head is small with a pointed snout. Juveniles are darker than adults.	AL, AR, DC, FL, GA, IL, IN, KS, KY, MD, MO, MS, NC, NJ, NY, OH, OK, PA, SC, TN, TX, VA, WV
Eastern Pinesnake	Pituophis melanoleucus	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Eastern Pinesnakes are 48-66 inches (122-168 cm) in total length. These are large, thick-bodied snakes with an indistinct pattern of large reddish brown or dark tan blotches on a cream, tan, or brownish-gray ground color. The pattern of dark blotches is most distinct on the hind part of the body and the tail. Some individuals lack the blotched pattern giving them an overall light-colored appearance, whereas others may appear nearly all black. The juvenile color pattern is similar to adults but brighter and less obscured towards the head.	AL, FL, GA, NC, SC
Burmese Python	Python bivittatus	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Burmese Pythons are about 10-16 feet (3-5 m) in total length. These are very large, stout-bodied snakes with dark brown blotches down the back and sides. The blotches are variable in size and shape, and they are bordered in black. The background coloration between the blotches is usually tan, tannish yellow, or cream colored. The top of the head is dark with a light stripe on both sides of the head that extends through the eye to converge on the nose, forming a dark V-pattern. Juvenile color pattern is similar to that of adults, except the coloration is more vivid.	FL
African Rock Python	Python sebae	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult African Rock Pythons are about 10-16 feet (3-5 m) in total length. These are very large, stout-bodied snakes with two mostly continuous and irregular dark blotches down the back that are bordered by black and white. The background body coloration is usually tannish-brown or brownish-gray. The top of the head is dark with a light stripe on both sides of the head that extends through the eye to converge on the nose, forming a dark spearhead pattern. Juvenile color pattern is similar to that of adults, except the coloration is more vivid.	FL
Florida Kingsnake	Lampropeltis floridana	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Florida Kingsnakes are about 36-48 inches (90-122 cm) in total length. These snakes are variable in coloration from brown to yellow. They have more than 40 yellowish crossbands down the back and a degenerate chain-like pattern along the sides. The scales between the crossbands lighten with age. The neck is indistinct. The scales are smooth and shiny. Juveniles are mostly black with white or yellowish crossbands down the body.	FL
Timber Rattlesnake	Crotalus horridus	VENOMOUS	Most adult Timber Rattlesnakes are about 36-60 inches (76-152 cm) in total length. This is a large, heavy-bodied snake with a series of large, black, chevron-like crossbands down the pinkish gray or tan body. There is a reddish-brown stripe running down the center of the back. The tail is usually uniformly black. The tail ends in a rattle, which is often held above the ground. The large and thick head is distinct from the neck and sometimes has a dark diagonal line through the eye or just behind the eye. The coloration of juveniles is the same as described for adults, and the tip of the tail of newborns ends in a “button”, which is the first segment of the future rattle.	L, AR, CT, DC, DE, FL, GA, IA, IL, IN, KS, KY, LA, MA, MD, MI, MO, MS, NC, NH, NJ, NY, OH, OK, PA, SC, TN, TX, VA, VT, WI, WV
Black Swampsnake	Liodytes pygaea	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Black Swampsnakes are about 10-15 inches (25-38 cm) in total length. These small snakes are shiny and black. The belly is bright red with black markings on the edges. Juvenile coloration is similar to adults.	AL, FL, GA, LA, MS, NC, SC
Saltmarsh Snake	Nerodia clarkii	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Saltmarsh Snakes are about 15-30 inches (38-76 cm) in total length. Color patterns of these snakes are extremely variable. Adults can be gray, grayish-olive, brown, tan, or rusty orange, with variable patterns of dark stripes or bands down the body. However, some individuals may lack stripes entirely, and some individuals may be almost entirely black. Juvenile coloration is similar to that described for adults.	FL, GA, SC
Florida Green Watersnake	Nerodia floridana	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Florida Green Watersnakes are about 30-55 inches (76-140 cm) in total length. Adults are stout-bodied snakes and may be greenish, brownish, or orangish, with no real distinctive markings other than dark speckling. The head is large, with small scales between the eye and the upper lip scales. Juvenile coloration is similar to that described for adults.	FL
Eastern Kingsnake	Lampropeltis getula	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Eastern Kingsnakes are about 36-48 inches (90-122 cm) in total length. These snakes are solid black to chocolate brown, with several narrow white to yellowish crossbands down the back and a narrow chain-like pattern on the sides. The neck is indistinct and the scales are smooth and shiny. Juveniles resemble adults in color and pattern.	AL, AR, AZ, CA, CO, CT, DE, FL, GA, ID, IL, IN, IA, KS, KY, LA, MA, MD, MI, MO, MS, MT, NC, NE, NJ, NM, NV, NY, OH, OK, OR, PA, SC, SD, TN, TX, UT, VA, VT, WA, WV, WI, WY
Diamond-backed Watersnake	Nerodia rhombifer	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Diamond-backed Watersnakes are about 30-60 inches (76-152 cm) in total length. These stout-bodied snakes are light grayish-brown with a dark chain-like pattern down the entire body. The scales are strongly keeled (each scale has a prominent raised ridge). Juvenile coloration is similar to that described for adults.	AL, AR, FL, GA, IA, IL, IN, KS, KY, LA, MO, MS, NE, OH, OK, TN, TX
Eastern Hog-nosed Snake	Heterodon platirhinos	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Eastern Hog-nosed Snakes are about 20-33 inches (51-84 cm) in total length. These are stout-bodied snakes with slightly upturned, pointed snouts. The color pattern is extremely variable and may be mostly yellow, tan, olive, brown, gray, orange, or reddish-brown with large, dark brown or black, irregular-shaped blotches on the back and smaller blotches on the sides. Some individuals may be entirely black or dark gray without any pattern. There is often a dark line extending from the upper jaw through the eye. Juvenile coloration is similar to that described for adults but more vivid.	AL, AR, CT, DC, DE, FL, GA, IA, IL, IN, KS, KY, LA, MA, MD, MI, MN, MO, MS, NC, NE, NH, NJ, NY, OH, OK, PA, SC, SD, TN, TX, VA, VT, WI, WV
Red-bellied Snake	Storeria occipitomaculata	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Red-bellied Snakes are about 8-10 inches (20-26 cm) in total length. These snakes are small and thin, and their background color is gray to reddish brown with 1-5 stripes down the back. The head is black or dark brown, and there is a light collar around the neck. The belly is normally bright red. Juveniles are darker than adults and have a whitish band across back of the head.	AL, AR, CT, DC, DE, FL, GA, IA, IL, IN, KS, KY, LA, MA, MD, MI, MN, MO, MS, NC, NE, NH, NJ, NY, OH, OK, PA, RI, SC, SD, TN, TX, VA, VT, WI, WV, WY
Rainbow Snake	Farancia erytrogramma	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Rainbow Snakes are about 27–48 inches (70–122 cm) in total length. Adults are large, thick bodied, and quite beautiful. These snakes are mostly glossy black (iridescent blue in the sunlight) with three thin red stripes running down the back and sides. The lower sides of the body are yellow or pink, and the chin and throat are yellow. The tail tip ends in a pointed, horny scale. Juveniles are similar in appearance to adults.	AL, FL, GA, MD, NC, SC, VA
Eastern Ribbonsnake	Thamnophis saurita	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Eastern Ribbonsnakes are about 18-26 inches (46-66 cm) in total length. These are extremely slender snakes with three thin light-colored stripes running the length of the body. Adults have a background color of brown, olive-black or bluish-black with one thin stripe running down the middle of the back and one stripe running along each side. The stripes vary in color and are typically yellow, tannish-brown, blue, or whitish-green. However, stripes are absent in some individuals. The tail is long and thin. The head is only slightly distinct from the neck. The eyes are large and prominent. There is a distinct white spot in front of each eye. The coloration of juveniles is similar to that described for adults.	AL, AR, CT, DC, DE, FL, GA, IA, IL, IN, KS, KY, LA, MA, MD, MI, MN, MO, MS, NC, NE, NH, NJ, NY, OH, OK, PA, RI, SC, SD, TN, TX, VA, VT, WI, WV, WY
Eastern Copperhead	Agkistrodon contortrix	VENOMOUS	The average adult Eastern Copperhead is 22-36 inches long (56-91 cm) in total length. This snake is stout-bodied with a distinctive hourglass pattern of broad light brown and dark brown crossbands. The coloration of juveniles is similar to adults, except that the tail tip of newborn copperheads is bright sulfur yellow. See below for a more detailed description of this species.	AL, AR, CT, DC, DE, FL, GA, IA, IL, IN, KS, KY, LA, MA, MD, MI, MN, MO, MS, NC, NE, NH, NJ, NY, OH, OK, PA, RI, SC, SD, TN, TX, VA, VT, WI, WV, WY
Eastern Indigo Snake	Drymarchon couperi	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Eastern Indigo Snakes are about 60-82 inches (152-213 cm) in total length. These large and thick-bodied snakes are glossy black and have iridescent purple or blue highlights when viewed in sunlight. The chin and throat are typically red or orangish, and the color may extend down the body. Juveniles are glossy black with narrow whitish-blue bands.	AL, FL, GA, MS, SC
Brown Watersnake	Nerodia taxispilota	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Brown Watersnakes are about 30-60 inches (76-152 cm) in total length. These stout-bodied snakes are light tan with squarish darker brown blotches down the middle of the back. Dark squarish markings also extend upwards from the belly onto the sides of the body between the blotches on the back. The head is large and distinct from the neck. Juvenile coloration is similar to that described for adults.	AL, AR, FL, GA, IL, IN, KY, LA, MO, MS, NC, OH, SC, TN, VA, WV
Florida Brownsnake	Storeria victa	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Florida Brownsnakes are about 9-13 inches (23-33 cm) in total length. These snakes are small, thin, and may be tannish brown or rusty brown. Adults have a faint light stripe running down the middle of the back that is boarded on both sides by parallel rows of small black spots, which may be connected across the back. The upper lip scales are whitish except for a large dark marking under each eye. Juveniles are dark brown with a whitish band across back of head.	FL
Dekay’s Brownsnake	Storeria dekayi	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Dekay’s Brownsnakes are about 9-13 inches (23-33 cm) in total length. These snakes are small, thin, and may be grayish-brown or light brown. Adults have a faint light stripe running down the middle of the back that is boarded on both sides by parallel rows of small black spots, which may be connected across the back. The back of the neck and top of the head are dark brown, and there is a light band across the back of the head. Juveniles are dark brown with a whitish band across back of head.	AL, AR, CT, DC, DE, FL, GA, IA, IL, IN, KS, KY, LA, MA, MD, MI, MN, MO, MS, NC, NE, NH, NJ, NY, OH, OK, PA, RI, SC, SD, TN, TX, VA, VT, WI, WV, WY
Gray Ratsnake	Pantherophis spiloides	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Gray Ratsnakes are about 42-72 inches (106-183 cm) in total length. Adults are light gray with darker gray blotches down the back. The belly is sandy-gray with dark square blotches. Juveniles are similar in appearance to adults.	AL, AR, CT, DC, DE, FL, GA, IA, IL, IN, KS, KY, LA, MA, MD, MI, MN, MO, MS, NC, NE, NH, NJ, NY, OH, OK, PA, RI, SC, SD, TN, TX, VA, VT, WI, WV, WY
Red-bellied Mudsnake	Farancia abacura	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Red-bellied Mudsnakes are about 40–54 inches (102–137 cm) in total length. Adults are large, thick bodied, and quite beautiful. The body is mostly glossy black (iridescent blue in the sunlight) with the ends of 53 or more red to pink bars from the belly extending onto the sides. The belly typically has a pattern consisting of alternating black and red or pink bars. The neck is thick and indistinct. The scales on the upper and lower lips, chin, and throat are yellowish and each has a dark spot. The iris is red. Juveniles are similar in appearance to adults, but the red to pink bars from the belly extend higher onto their sides.	FL, AL, AR, GA, IL, IN, KY, LA, MS, NC, SC, TN, TX, VA
Scarlet Kingsnake	Lampropeltis elapsoides	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Scarlet Kingsnakes are about 14-20 inches (36-51 cm) in total length. This is a thin-bodied snake with alternating red, black, and yellow rings that encircle the body. However, the red and yellow rings do not touch. The small head is barely distinct from the neck and has a red snout. The coloration of juveniles is the same as described for adults, but the yellow rings may be white.	AL, AR, FL, GA, LA, MS, NC, SC, VA
Harlequin Coralsnake	Micrurus fulvius	VENOMOUS	Most adult Harlequin Coralsnakes are about 20-30 inches (51-76 cm) in total length. This is a thin-bodied snake with alternating red and black rings separated by narrower yellow rings. The small head is not distinct from the neck and has a rounded black snout followed by a broad yellow band behind the eyes. The coloration of juveniles is the same as described for adults.	AL, AR, FL, GA, LA, MS, NC, SC
Scarletsnake	Cemophora coccinea	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Scarletsnakes are about 14-20 inches (36-51 cm) in total length. These thin-bodied snakes have a whitish-gray dorsal ground color with long red blotches bordered by black down the entire body. Both the red and whitish-gray blotches are separated by black. As a result, the red and whitish-gray blotches do not touch one another. The small, pointed head is barely distinct from the neck and is red with a distinct light-colored band just behind the eyes. The coloration of juveniles is the same as described for adults.	AL, FL, GA, MS, NC, SC
Rough Greensnake	Opheodrys aestivus	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Rough Greensnakes are about 14-33 inches (35-82 cm) in total length. This is a long and slender bright green snake with a cream to yellow belly. The belly color extends onto the chin and lips. Juvenile coloration is similar to adults but not as vivid.	AL, AR, DE, FL, GA, IL, IN, IA, KS, KY, LA, MD, MI, MS, MO, NC, NJ, NY, OH, OK, PA, SC, TN, TX, VA, WI, WV
Common Gartersnake	Thamnophis sirtalis	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Common Gartersnakes are about 18-26 inches (46-66 cm) in total length. These are slender snakes with three thin light-colored stripes running the length of the body. Adults have a background color of black, greenish brown, tan, or gray with one stripe running down the middle of the back and one stripe running along each side. The stripes are typically yellow, green, brown, blue, or white. However, some individuals may lack stripes. A dark checkerboard pattern may be visible along the sides of the body between the back and side stripes. The eyes are large and prominent. The coloration of juveniles is similar to adults.	AL, AR, AZ, CA, CO, CT, DE, FL, GA, IA, ID, IL, IN, KS, KY, LA, MA, MD, ME, MI, MN, MO, MS, MT, NC, ND, NE, NH, NJ, NM, NV, NY, OH, OK, OR, PA, RI, SC, SD, TN, TX, UT, VA, VT, WA, WI, WV, WY
Eastern Diamond-backed Rattlesnake	Crotalus adamanteus	VENOMOUS	Most adult Eastern Diamond-backed Rattlesnakes are about 33-72 inches (84-183 cm) in total length. This is a very large, heavy-bodied snake with a row of large dark diamonds with brown centers and cream borders down its back. The ground color of the body is brownish. The tail ends in a rattle, which is often held above the ground. The large and thick head is distinct from the neck and has a light bordered dark stripe running diagonally through each eye. The coloration of juveniles is the same as described for adults, and the tip of the tail of newborns ends in a “button”, which is the first segment of the future rattle.	AL, FL, GA, LA, MS, NC, SC
Dusky Pygmy Rattlesnake	Sistrurus miliarius barbouri	VENOMOUS	Most adult Dusky Pygmy Rattlesnakes are about 12-24 inches (30-61 cm) in total length. This is a very small snake, but it is thick for its size. The body color varies from light to dark gray, and a lengthwise row of black or charcoal blotches disrupts a reddish-brown stripe running down the middle of the back. The tail is slender and ends in a tiny rattle. The head is distinct from the neck and has a black diagonal line just behind the eye. The coloration of juveniles is the same as described for adults, except the tail tip of juveniles is bright sulfur-yellow in color.	AL, FL, GA, NC, SC
Pine Woods Littersnake	Rhadinaea flavilata	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Pine Woods Littersnakes are about 10-13 inches (25-33 cm) in total length. Adults are slender and typically reddish-orange to reddish-brown in color. The lips are whitish-yellow, and there is a thin dark line that runs through the eye to the corner of the mouth. Juvenile coloration is similar to that described for adults but often more vivid.	AL, FL, GA, LA, MS
Florida Cottonmouth	Agkistrodon conanti	NON-VENOMOUS	The average adult Florida cottonmouth is 30-48 inches (76-122 cm) in total length. This snake is heavy bodied with a pattern of light brown and dark brown crossbands containing many dark spots and speckles. The pattern darkens with age so adults may become uniformly black. The eye is camouflaged by a broad, dark, facial stripe. The color pattern of juvenile cottonmouths is much lighter than in adults, and newborns have a sulfur-yellow tail tip.	AL, FL, GA, MS, NC, SC
Southern Watersnake	Nerodia fasciata	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Southern Watersnakes are about 22-42 inches (56-107 cm) in total length. These are stout-bodied snakes with broad black, brown, or red crossbands (often bordered with black) down the back. The lighter narrower bands are tan, gray, or reddish. The light bands may be broken by a black strip down the middle of the back. The crossbands may be obscured as the snake darkens with age, and older individuals may become uniformly black. The background color may be gray, yellow, tan, or reddish. A dark stripe extends from the eye to the angle of the jaw. The coloration of juveniles is similar to that described for adults.	AL, FL, GA, MS, NC, SC
Eastern Coachwhip	Masticophis flagellum flagellum	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Coachwhips are about 42-60 inches (107-152 cm) in total length. This is a very long and slender snake with large and prominent eyes that have yellow irises. Adults typically have a dark brown or black head, neck, and anterior (front) part of the body, which changes to light tan posteriorly. Juveniles are brown or tan with indistinct dark crossbands down the neck and back.	AL, AR, CO, FL, GA, IA, IL, KS, KY, LA, MO, MS, NC, NE, NM, OK, SC, TN, TX, VA
Ring-necked Snake	Diadophis punctatus	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Ring-necked Snakes are about 8-14 inches (21-36 cm) in total length. Adults are small and slender with a black or slate gray body and a yellowish ring across the neck, which may be incomplete or missing. The belly and underside of the tail are bright yellow, orange, or red. Juvenile coloration is similar to that described for adults.	AL, AR, AZ, CA, CO, CT, DC, DE, FL, GA, IA, ID, IL, IN, KS, KY, LA, MA, MD, ME, MI, MN, MO, MS, MT, NC, ND, NE, NH, NJ, NM, NV, NY, OH, OK, OR, PA, RI, SC, SD, TN, TX, UT, VA, VT, WA, WI, WV, WY
Brahminy Blindsnake	Indotyphlops braminus	NON-VENOMOUS	Most adult Brahminy Blindsnakes are about 4.4–6.5 inches (11.2–16.5 cm) in total length. These snakes are small, thin, and shiny silver gray, charcoal gray, or purple. The head and tail both appear blunt and can be difficult to distinguish from each other. Juvenile coloration is similar to that of adults.	AL, AR, FL, GA, HI, LA, MS, NC, OK, SC, TX, VA
Northern water snake	Nerodia sipedon sipedon	NON-VENOMOUS	22”-53”L. This is one of the most common snakes in NJ, inhabiting freshwater streams, ponds, lakes, swamps, marshes, and bogs throughout the state. Commonly observed basking communally on logs and rocks along stream banks, this snake is often misidentified as NJ’s northern copperhead. The ground color is brown or gray with darker brown, reddish, or black bands on the neck and back. The darker pattern color forms wider bands along the back and slightly narrower bands on the sides, resembling a “reverse” hourglass pattern. Older water snakes are much darker, usually brown or black with faint remnants of pattern while juveniles’ patterns are typically more vivid. They have keeled scales. They give birth to live young in late summer. The water snake often exhibits a highly defensive disposition and can inflict a painful, non-venomous bite if handled.	NJ, NY, PA, OH, MI, IN, IL, IA, NE, KS, MO, KY, TN, MS, AL, GA, SC, NC, VA, WV, MD, DE, CT, RI, MA, NH, VT, ME, TX, FL, LA, OK, AR, ND, SD, MN, WI
Eastern milk snake	Lampropeltis triangulum triangulum	NON-VENOMOUS	24”-52”L. The milk snake is a common species found in NJ. It inhabits various habitats including fields, wooded areas, riverbanks, and rocky hillsides.  It may be found in barns or other buildings that house rodents. It is often mistaken for NJ’s northern copperhead or timber rattlesnake. The ground color is creamy gray with red or brown blotches outlined in black along the back and sides. Commonly, a Y- or V-shaped light patch can be found on the nape of the neck. They have smooth scales. Six to 24 eggs are laid in June and hatch in late August.	 NJ, PA, OH, MI, IN, IL, IA, NE, MO, KY, TN, MS, AL, GA, SC, NC, VA, WV, MD, DE, NY, CT, RI, MA, NH, VT, ME, ON, QC
Northern scarlet snake	Cemophora coccinea copei	NON-VENOMOUS	14”-321/4”L. The northern scarlet snake is an uncommon snake in NJ. It inhabits sandy soils usually hiding under logs, boards, or debris.  It may also be found in or near damp woodlands. It resembles the poisonous coral snake of the southern U.S., however, the northern scarlet snake is not poisonous.  Its red bands do not extend all the way around the body and are bordered by black with white or creamyyellow interspaces. They have smooth scales. This snake rarely comes above ground except at night.	NJ, PA, DE, MD, VA, NC, SC, GA, FL, AL
Smooth green snake	Opheodrys vernalis	NON-VENOMOUS	117/8”-26”L. This snake is in NJ’s northern region found primarily in grasses, meadows, open woods, and other terrestrial habitats where it blends easily. This snake does not display the climbing ability of the rough green snake. It has smooth, light green scales with a white, yellow, or pale green belly. They have smooth scales. The eggs are laid in July and hatch in September.	NJ, NY, PA, OH, MI, IN, IL, IA, MO, KY, TN, WV, MD, DE, CT, RI, MA, NH, VT, ME, VA, NC, SC, GA, AL, MS, AR, LA, TX, ND, SD, NE, KS, OK
Northern Pine snake	Pituophis melanoleucus melanoleucus	NON-VENOMOUS	48”-100”L. The northern pine snake is a state threatened species found in the Pine Barrens of NJ.  It is limited to sandy habitat as it burrows underground for shelter and egg laying.  It is a large snake with white, gray, or cream ground coloration marked with black or dark brown blotches. The blotches are more clearly defined towards the tail of the snake. They have keeled scales. The pine snake will hiss and defend itself vigorously when threatened and can inflict a painful, non-venomous bite if handled. The pine snake climbs trees readily but spends a considerable amount of time burrowing. Eggs are laid in June and hatch in August; young measure from 15-18” at hatching.	 NJ, PA, NY, MD, VA, NC
Black rat snake	Elaphe obsoleta obsoleta	NON-VENOMOUS	34”-101”L. This is NJ’s largest snake.  Like the black racer, the black rat is common throughout the state in rural and semi-suburban areas and is found in very similar habitats.  The adult black rat is a long, plain black snake with a white chin and throat and a white or pale yellow belly.  It is a slightly more bulky snake than the racer and when the skin is distended, some skin between the scales may appear white. Juvenile black rats are commonly misidentified as timber rattlesnakes as they have a gray ground color with dark brown or gray blotches on the back. They have weakly keeled scales. These snakes are climbers, and may be found in trees or rock crevices.  Five to 24 eggs are laid in June or July and hatch in late-August.	NJ, NY, PA, OH, MI, IN, IL, IA, WI, MN, MO, KY, TN, WV, VA, NC, SC, GA, AL, MS, AR, LA, OK, TX
Northern black racer	Coluber constrictor constrictor	NON-VENOMOUS	34”-77”L. Common throughout the state in rural and semi-suburban areas, the black racer can be found in fields or woodlands, and occasionally around residential gardens. The adult black racer is a long, slender, fast black snake with a white chin and throat. Juvenile black racers are commonly misidentified as timber rattlesnakes as they have a gray ground color with dark brown or gray blotches on the back with smaller spots on the sides. The pattern fades and the ground color becomes darker with age. They have smooth scales. Black racers mimic rattlesnakes by vibrating their tails on leaves and grass when they are threatened. Black racers will eat newborn rattlesnakes as well as other wildlife, and may climb trees to access bird nestlings for food. They are rather defensive snakes that frequently inflict a painful, non-venomous bite when handled. Eggs are laid in June or July and hatch in late-August.	NJ, NY, PA, OH, MI, IN, IL, MO, KY, TN, WV, VA, NC, SC, GA, AL, MS, AR, LA, FL
